## Repository Used for the Wearable Robotics Project ##

We use the following datasets:

HELLO! THANK YOU FOR YOUR INTEREST IN OUR DATASET!

For easy access to the dataset with dropbox check our lab's website:
http://www.epic.gatech.edu/opensource-biomechanics-camargo-et-al

Alternatively the dataset is also hosted on data.mendeley.com across 3
different links due to file size limitations:

Part 1/3: http://dx.doi.org/10.17632/fcgm3chfff.2
Part 2/3: http://dx.doi.org/10.17632/k9kvm5tn3f.2
Part 3/3: http://dx.doi.org/10.17632/jj3r5f9pnf.2


##### Dataset Structure #####
Data is stored as tables grouped by the nested directory structure of 
    <subject/date/mode/sensor/file>
    
    Example filepath: 'AB09/10_21_2018/treadmill/conditions/treadmill_01_01.mat'

All tables contain a 'Header' column containing the timestamp of each sample.
    Use this to synchronize different sensors or channels
    
Available Modes:
    * treadmill - 28 different speeds split into 7 trials
    * levelground - 3 different speeds, clockwise and counterclockwise loops
    * ramp - Ascent and descent for 6 inclinations
    * stair - Ascent and descent for 4 step heights
    * static - Marker data collected during static trials (Included in update 4/28/2024)

Available Sensors:
    * conditions - Experiment description, locomotion mode labels, 
            terrain condition (walking speed, ramp incline, or stair height).
            Sampled at 1000Hz.
    * emg - Electromyography from 11 muscles. Sampled at 1000Hz, bandpass
            filtered (20-400Hz).
    * fp - Ground reaction force data of all force plates used in a trial.
            Sampled at 1000Hz.
    * gcLeft - Gait cycle segmented by heel strike or toe off of left foot.
            Sampled at 200Hz
    * gcRight - Same as gcLeft but for right leg
    * gon - Goniometer data from hip (frontal, sagittal), knee (sagittal), 
            and ankle (frontal, sagittal). Sampled at 1000Hz.
    * id - Inverse dynamics calculated by OpenSim using ground reaction force
            and motion capture kinematic data. Sampled at 200Hz.
    * ik - Inverse kinematics calculated by OpenSim using motion capture data.
            Sampled at 200Hz.
    * ik_offset - Inverse kinematics with angles relative to the angles found 
	   during the static pose. Sampled at 200Hz. (Included in update 4/28/2024).
    * imu - Inertial Measurement Unit data from trunk, thigh, shank, and 
            foot segments. Sampled at 200Hz.
    * jp - Estimation of instantaneous joint power using joint moment and
            angular velocity. Sampled at 200Hz.
    * markers - Marker trajectories from motion capture. Sampled at 200Hz.

##### Example Scripts #####
Found in the 'scripts' folder

scripts/PLOT_TRIAL.m:
    Example for plotting sensor/biomechanics data from an entire trial for
    a single subject

scripts/STRIDES.m:
    Segment data from a selection of sensors for a selection of ambulation modes.
    Saves data into a scripts/STRIDES/ folder

scripts/PLOTS.m:
    Using the data in scripts/STRIDES/ folder (generated by scripts/STRIDES.m),
    plot gait profiles of data for each stride, averaged over all strides for each
    subject, and averaged over subjects.

scripts/RUN_OSIM.m:
    Compute inverse kinematics and inverse dynamics using OpenSim models for each
    subject. Subject models and OpenSim configurations are found in <subject>/osimxml/.
    (Updated 4/28/2024).

scripts/BATCHRUN.m:
    Helper script to run processing scripts for multiple subjects.

##### Citation #####
If you use this data for a paper or project, please cite us:

@article{CAMARGO2021110320,
title = {A comprehensive, open-source dataset of lower limb biomechanics in multiple conditions of stairs, ramps, and level-ground ambulation and transitions},
journal = {Journal of Biomechanics},
pages = {110320},
year = {2021},
issn = {0021-9290},
doi = {https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbiomech.2021.110320},
url = {https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0021929021001007},
author = {Jonathan Camargo and Aditya Ramanathan and Will Flanagan and Aaron Young},
keywords = {Locomotion biomechanics, stairs, ramps, level-ground, treadmill, wearable sensors, open dataset},
abstract = {We introduce a novel dataset containing 3-dimensional biomechanical and wearable sensor data from 22 able-bodied adults for multiple locomotion modes (level-ground/treadmill walking, stair ascent/descent, and ramp ascent/descent) and multiple terrain conditions of each mode (walking speed, stair height, and ramp inclination). In this paper, we present the data collection methods, explain the structure of the open dataset, and report the sensor data along with the kinematic and kinetic profiles of joint biomechanics as a function of the gait phase. This dataset offers a comprehensive source of locomotion information for the same set of subjects to motivate applications in locomotion recognition, developments in robotic assistive devices, and improvement of biomimetic controllers that better adapt to terrain conditions. With such a dataset, models for these applications can be either subject-dependent or subject-independent, allowing greater flexibility for researchers to advance the field.}
}
